---
layout: post
title: Learning Transferable Visual Models From Natural Language Supervision
category: Computer Vision
tag: [clip]
---

# [Boosting Semantic Segmentation with Semantic Boundaries](https://arxiv.org/abs/2304.09427)

## Abstract

* Uses Semantic Boundary Detection (SBD) as an auxiliary task to improve the backbone of the segmentation head.

* SBD head exploits the multi-scale features from the backbone ranging from low-level to high-level features.

* SBD head complements the common semantic segmentation architectures where the features from the later stages (high-level features) are used for classification.
    > semantic segmentation에서 high-level만 classification에 사용되나?? low-level은?

* NO additional parameters during inference

> Boundary Fscores??? How to measure?


## Introduction

* IoU is a standard metric of quantifying segmentation quality. But, it does not consider segmented boudnary quality perfectly.

* `SBD` is a multi-label classification task formulation of the classical binary edge detection task, which requires the
model to classify the edges and their category. Since boundaries are always surrounding the segmentation map, SBD is
often considered a dual problem of semantic segmentation.

* Papers to improve boudnary segmentation: Takikawa et al. [2019], Li et al. [2020], Zhen et al. [2020], SegFix, Yu et al. [2021].

> On-the-fly semantic boundary generation module ???

* `SegFix` has an effective post-processing method that improves the segmentation quality by fixing the segmentation errors around the boundaries. But, it also needs this module during inference. 

*  Semantic Boundary Conditioned Backbone (SBCB) framework is model-agnostic.

> During the training, the SBD head is used to train, but how to work w/o this SBD head during inference? how is it OK?

* Applied SBCB to `BiSeNet`, `STDC`


## Approach

* The SBD head is supervised using ground-truth (GT) semantic boundaries that are generated on-the-fly using the GT segmentation masks.
    > 말 그대로, gt mask로부터 boundary gt를 생성?

> During inference, if the targeted task does not require SBD, the SBD head can be discarded, resulting in a semantic segmentation model with no increase in parameters. ???????? 그럼 boundary에 대한 성능이 inference에서도 개선되나?
이게 맞으면, SBD head는 단순히 기존 모델에서의 feature 생성 또는 학습에 있어서 boundary가 고려되도록 유도한 것뿐?? implictly?




### References
- [Boosting Semantic Segmentation with Semantic Boundaries](https://arxiv.org/abs/2304.09427)
- [code - github](https://github.com/haruishi43/boundary_boost_mmseg)